== [[User:Penghui Li|Penghui Li]] ==
Cookie banners are commonly used by many websites in Europe after the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and ePrivacy Directive (ePD), especially for today's advertisement business.
This paper systematically studies the inconsistency between the user interface (UI) choices and the real behaviors behind the cookie banners.
The paper first introduces IAB Europe's Transparency and Consent Framework (TCF) and its Consent Management Providers (CMPs),
in particular, the consent string contains at least three attributes: 1) "cmpId" to identify the responsible CMP, 
2) "allowedPurposeIds" to denote the purposes of data processing, and 3) "allowedVendorIds" for the advertisers.
The consent is then stored in the browser, and the third parties, e.g., advertisers, can query it through four methods: 
1) standard APIs, such as javascript function "__cmp()" and iframe "__cmpLocator", can be directly or indirectly called, 
2) shared cookie, 3) URL-based methods like GET parameters and HTTP redirecting mechanisms, 
and 4) non-standard SafeFrames by calling "__cmp()".
With a thorough legal analysis of the GDPR and ePD, the authors propose four potential legal violations: 
1) consent stored before choice, 2) no way to opt out, 3) pre-selected choices and 4) no-respect of choice.
The authors design and implement a Selenium-instrumented Chromium tool, Cookinspect, to detect whether a website enables a TCF cookie banner by checking whether "__cmp() function is defined.
Besides, Cookinspect can intercept the consent string by inserting consent queries as an advertiser and monitoring the network traffic.
A website violates 1) consent stored before choice if there exist accepted purposes even if no user action is performed,
2) no way to opt out if nowhere can refuse the consent,
3) pre-selected choices if there is at least one pre-selected checkbox for at least one purpose,
and 4) non-respect of choice if user choices do not really behave in the browser, e.g., refusal of the consent.
The latter four violations are examined through manually checking (semi-automatic crawl), while the first is fully automatic (automatic crawl).
The authors apply Cookieinspect on 22,949 websites and detect 1,426 websites with cookie banners, and 141 (10%) out of 1,426 websites violate the consent store before choice;
A more precise analysis on a subset of 560 websites finds that
236 (47%) nudge the users towards accepting the pre-selected choices, and 38 (7%) do not allow refusing the consent.
In summary, at least one suspected violation exists in 304 (54%) out of 560 websites.
The paper also analyzes the prevalence of the TCF banners based on the domains, CMPs, etc.
At last, a browser extension, named Cookie Glasses, is published to allow end-users to check their consent stored by the CMPs.
